Keynote Abstract: Events on a Global Scale: Towards Language-Agnostic Event Extraction | Elizabeth Boschee | event extraction is a challenging and exciting task in the world of machine learning & natural language processing. the breadth of events of possible interest , the speed at which surrounding socio-political event contexts evolve , and the complexities involved in generating representative annotated data all contribute to this challenge. one particular dimension of difficulty is the intrinsically global nature of events: many downstream use cases for event extraction involve reporting not just in a few major languages but in a much broader context. the languages of interest for even a fixed task may still shift from day to day , e.g. when a disease emerges in an unexpected location. early approaches to multi-lingual event extraction \( e.g. ace \) relied wholly on supervised data provided in each language of interest. later approaches leveraged the success of machine translation to side-step the issue , simply translating foreign-language content to english and deploying english models on the result \( often leaving some significant portion of the original content behind \) . most recently , however , the community has begun to shown significant progress applying zero-shot transfer techniques to the problem , developing models using supervised english data but decoding in a foreign language without translation , typically using embedding spaces specifically designed to capture multi-lingual semantic content. in this talk i will discuss multiple dimensions of these promising new approaches and the linguistic representations that underlie them. i will compare them with approaches based on machine translation \( as well as with models trained using in-language training data , where available \) , and discuss their strengths and weaknesses in different contexts , including the amount of english/foreign bitext available and the nature of the target event ontology. i will also discuss possible future directions with an eye to improving the quality of event extraction no matter its source around the globe.
