Tigrinya Automatic Speech recognition with Morpheme based recognition units | Hafte Abera | “low resource languages” usually refers to languages that lack corpora and basic tools such as part-of-speech taggers. but a significant number of such languages do benefit from the availability of relatively complex linguistic descriptions of phonology , morphology , and syntax , as well as dictionaries. a further category , probably the majority of the world’s languages , suffers from the lack of even these resources. in this paper , we investigate the possibility of learning the morphology of such a language by relying on its close relationship to a language with more resources. specifically , we use a transfer-based approach to learn the morphology of the severely under-resourced language gofa , starting with a neural morphological generator for the closely related language , wolaytta. both languages are members of the omotic family , spoken and southwestern ethiopia , and , like other omotic languages , both are morphologically complex. we first create a finite- state transducer for morphological analysis and generation for wolaytta , based on relatively complete linguistic descriptions and lexicons for the language. next , we train an encoder-decoder neural network on the task of morphological generation for wolaytta , using data generated by the fst. such a network takes a root and a set of grammatical features as input and generates a word form as output. we then elicit gofa translations of a small set of wolaytta words from bilingual speakers. finally , we retrain the decoder of the wolaytta network , using a small set of gofa target words that are translations of the wolaytta outputs of the original network. the evaluation shows that the transfer network performs better than a separate encoder-decoder network trained on a larger set of gofa words. we conclude with implications for the learning of morphology for severely under-resourced languages in regions where there are related languages with more resources.
